README.md, before:

# System Verite: A Multi-Factor Fraud Detection System for Banking Security  

**Authors:**  
- Afundar, Audrie Lex L.  
- Khafaji, Mostafa A.  
- Percia, Kyte Daiter M.  
- Rodillas, Christian Miguel T.  

---

## Introduction  
Intro…  

---

## Features  

### E-mail and Phone Number Verification  
- Clients verify their data (E-mail & Phone Number) through One-time passwords (OTPs).  
- Ensures that the stored data are real and valid, reducing fraud risk.  

### Face Recognition  
- Client’s faces are stored in the database for security and verification purposes.  
- Helps detect fraudulent and scam activities for future transactions on or off site.  

### Signature Fraud Detection  
- AI compares two instances of the client’s signature (one given from a previous trusted transaction vs. current transaction).  
- Helps detect forgery and provides another layer for security.  

---

## Installation  
Through GitHub clone the repository or download the folder while retaining the current folder structure.  

Needed dependencies are Python with the following libraries and respective versions:  

- **Flask**: web framework (`flask`) - 3.1.1  
- **Ultralytics YOLO**: object detection (`ultralytics`) - 8.3.170  
- **OpenCV**: computer vision (`cv2`) - 4.12.0  
- **Pillow (PIL)**: image processing (`Pillow`) - 10.4.0  
- **TensorFlow**: deep learning (`tensorflow`) - 2.19.0  
- **Keras**: neural networks (`keras` and `tf-keras`) - 3.10.0  
- **NumPy**: numerical computing (`numpy`) - 2.0.0  
- **DeepFace**: face recognition & analysis (`deepface`) - 0.0.95  

> **Note:** Download through manual install of the dependencies or utilize the `requirements.txt`.  

---

## Usage  
To run the app, there are two ways (`app.py`, `sig.py`):  

- **sig.py** – run the Python code through IDE or terminal  
  ```bash
  python sig.py
  python app.py

## Folder Structure
```bash
System_Verite/
├── .deepface/
├── Html/
│   ├── Face_cam.html
│   ├── General_info.html
│   ├── Sig_upload.html
│   └── Sign.html
├── Static/
│   ├── Css/
│   │   └── style-wr.css
│   ├── Picture/
│   │   ├── Bpi_logo.png
│   │   └── bpi_logo_2.png
│   ├── Cropped_pic.jpg
│   ├── Entire_pic.jpg
│   ├── Instance_face_photo.jpg
│   └── reference.jpg
├── app.py
├── sig.py
├── Haarscascade_frontalface_default.xml
├── Signet_sia_model.keras
└── yolov8s.pt
```
## Credits & Acknowledgement

GitHub - serengil/deepface: A Lightweight Face Recognition and Facial Attribute Analysis (Age, Gender, Emotion and Race) Library for Python https://share.google/GjJ5lG8UYYnHNmY0h

Opencv Python program for Face Detection - GeeksforGeeks https://share.google/gfFOHgwz0uMtULPCu

Research inspiration for the Siamese Model:

	SigNet: Convolutional Siamese Network for Writer Independent Offline Signature Verification - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.02131
	Siamese signature verification with confidence - https://www.kaggle.com/code/medali1992/siamese-signature-verification-with-confidence#Contrastive-loss

Commit message:

Final final update for README.md
added gdrive link for the models

README.md, after:

# System Verite: A Multi-Factor Fraud Detection System for Banking Security  

**Authors:**  
- Afundar, Audrie Lex L.  
- Khafaji, Mostafa A.  
- Percia, Kyte Daiter M.  
- Rodillas, Christian Miguel T.  

---

## Introduction  
Intro…  

---

## Features  

### E-mail and Phone Number Verification  
- Clients verify their data (E-mail & Phone Number) through One-time passwords (OTPs).  
- Ensures that the stored data are real and valid, reducing fraud risk.  

### Face Recognition  
- Client’s faces are stored in the database for security and verification purposes.  
- Helps detect fraudulent and scam activities for future transactions on or off site.  

### Signature Fraud Detection  
- AI compares two instances of the client’s signature (one given from a previous trusted transaction vs. current transaction).  
- Helps detect forgery and provides another layer for security.  

---

## Installation  
Through GitHub clone the repository or download the folder while retaining the current folder structure.  

Download the necessary models and follow the folder structure through the given google drive link:
	https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1N-8f23Rk4z3k0jRB36Kc5mhQq3wivM5H?usp=sharing

Needed dependencies are Python with the following libraries and respective versions:  

- **Flask**: web framework (`flask`) - 3.1.1  
- **Ultralytics YOLO**: object detection (`ultralytics`) - 8.3.170  
- **OpenCV**: computer vision (`cv2`) - 4.12.0  
- **Pillow (PIL)**: image processing (`Pillow`) - 10.4.0  
- **TensorFlow**: deep learning (`tensorflow`) - 2.19.0  
- **Keras**: neural networks (`keras` and `tf-keras`) - 3.10.0  
- **NumPy**: numerical computing (`numpy`) - 2.0.0  
- **DeepFace**: face recognition & analysis (`deepface`) - 0.0.95  

> **Note:** Download through manual install of the dependencies or utilize the `requirements.txt`.


---

## Usage  
To run the app, there are two ways (`app.py`, `sig.py`):  

- **sig.py** – run the Python code through IDE or terminal  
  ```bash
  python sig.py
  python app.py

## Folder Structure
```bash
System_Verite/
├── .deepface/
├── Html/
│   ├── Face_cam.html
│   ├── General_info.html
│   ├── Sig_upload.html
│   └── Sign.html
├── Static/
│   ├── Css/
│   │   └── style-wr.css
│   ├── Picture/
│   │   ├── Bpi_logo.png
│   │   └── bpi_logo_2.png
│   ├── Cropped_pic.jpg
│   ├── Entire_pic.jpg
│   ├── Instance_face_photo.jpg
│   └── reference.jpg
├── app.py
├── sig.py
├── Haarscascade_frontalface_default.xml
├── Signet_sia_model.keras
└── yolov8s.pt
```
## Credits & Acknowledgement

GitHub - serengil/deepface: A Lightweight Face Recognition and Facial Attribute Analysis (Age, Gender, Emotion and Race) Library for Python https://share.google/GjJ5lG8UYYnHNmY0h

Opencv Python program for Face Detection - GeeksforGeeks https://share.google/gfFOHgwz0uMtULPCu

Research inspiration for the Siamese Model:

	SigNet: Convolutional Siamese Network for Writer Independent Offline Signature Verification - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.02131
	Siamese signature verification with confidence - https://www.kaggle.com/code/medali1992/siamese-signature-verification-with-confidence#Contrastive-loss
